To express my reasons better, I would like to use specific examples from my latest and greatest experience in the open-source community: DeepCritical Project -find more details about this project in my resume.
Once DeepCritical project kicked off, there was not much traction among the participants. The maintainer did a great job publishing some good first issues, yet not much attention had been caught up. Therefore, I decided to step into the scene and contact this person. My early approach turned into one of the first contributions to the project and marked me as one of the active foundational members of DeepCritical.
Even though I had been preparing myself taking tons of courses, at that time I felt like I lacked of real-world experience. It wasn’t until I joined MCP-1st-Birthday’s hackathon that I felt real pressure and many concepts magically started to make sense. When the team discussed about the agent architecture to be used for agentic deep-research, we call out for everyone to “do their homework” and give their best shot with justification. Spoiler alert: My proposal of using a magentic-type architecture got to see the light on THE DETERMINATOR demo.
The thing I love the most of working with people is to connect in a cultural way. While working on a shared goal, I find fascinating to get to know people’s background. This, in my experience, builds a collaborative relationship that yields its performance in the final result. DeepCritical project was no exception. Whether this person is part of your team, supplier, customer or a random guy from the internet, anyone has a chance to bring up something valuable to the table.
The topics -that I’m excited for AI to leverage- are expressive robots, healthcare companion, medicine progress (mostly in neurology and cardiology fields) and quantitative finance for portfolio optimization. Although I often get distracted by many other topics, I find interesting along the way.  
To me Hugging Face has not only become the hub for open-source AI, but the site where the whole scientific community gathers up worldwide. I believe the progress of AI will be driven mostly by open-source efforts; therefore, I’m on board to be part of it.

